Docs update: Scaling Overview for Services (#38854)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/admin/deploy/scale.md

---

## Components Overview

Here is a list of components you can find in a typical Sourcegraph deployment:

### Core Components

|                                                   |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| :------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [frontend](scale.md#frontend)                     | Serves the web application, extensions, and graphQL services. Almost every service has a link back to the frontend, from which it gathers configuration updates.                                                                                                                              |

> | [github-proxy](scale.md#github-proxy)             | Proxies all requests to github.com to keep track of rate limits and prevent triggering abuse mechanisms                                                                                                                                                                                       |

Author: Removed all full stops from the end of sentences

| :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `Overview`  | A thread is dispatched per HTTP request. It is also used to serve Code Insight series |
| `Factors`   | Number of active users                                                                |
|             | Number of user actions performed                                                      |
|             | Number of insight series defined                                                      |
| `Guideline` | More engaged users = more replicas                                                    |

| Memory      |                                                   |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------------------ |
| `Overview`  | Aggregates results before serving them to clients |
| `Factors`   | Number of active users                            |
|             | Number of repositories                            |
| `Guideline` | More engaged users = more Memory                  |

| Storage     |                                                    |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------------------- |

> | `Overview`  | Stores cache data                                  |

Reviewer: does it still do this? I believe we got rid of the need to have cache_dir. But checking now I see we still have it in our resource definitions! Filed this issue to remove it, but I believe you don't need to mention it here. https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/38934

| CPU         |                                                                                      |
| :---------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Overview`  | Runs git commands concurrently                                                       |
| `Factors`   | Number of active users                                                               |
|             | Size of all repositories                                                             |
|             | Size of the largest repository                                                       |
| `Guideline` | Depends on the amount of git commands need to perform --more git commands = more CPU |

| Memory      |                                                                                  |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Overview`  | Linear to the concurrent number of API requests proxied                          |
| `Factors`   | Number of API requests to GitHub and GitHub Enterprise                           |

> | `Guideline` | Depends on the size of the git commands -- larger the git commands = more memory |

Reviewer: this looks like copy-pasta from github-proxy.

| Storage     |                                                                                                           |
| :---------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Overview`  | Stores user sessions.                                                                                     |
| `Factors`   | Size of all repositories                                                                                  |
| `Guideline` | TIncrease based on the number of active user sessions (including both anonymous users and signed-in users |
|             | each anonymous session is counted independently                                                           |
| `Type`      | Ephemeral storage for Kubernetes                                                                          |
|             | Persistent SSD for Docker Compose                                                                         |

---

### repo-updater

```
Repo-updater tracks the state of repositories.
It is responsible for automatically scheduling updates using gitserver. 

> Services that desire updates or fetch communicate with repo-updater.

Reviewer: if I am not mistaken it is also responsible for synchronizing metadata with codehosts / external services.

| :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `Overview`  | Depending on the number of concurrent requests for unindexed search |
| `Factors`   | Number of active users                                              |
| `Guideline` | More engaged users = more replicas                                  |

| CPU         |                                                                                                |
| :---------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Overview`  | Searcher is IO and CPU bound. It fetches archives from gitserver and searches them with regexp |
| `Factors`   | Number of active users                                                                         |
| `Guideline` | More engaged users = more CPU                                                                  |

| Memory      |                                                                                                        |
| :---------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `Overview`  | Searcher fetches archives from gitserver and stores them on disk. It also populates an in-memory cache |

Reviewer: I think "in-memory cache" is a bit misleading. Rather it relies on the OS file page cache to speed up future searches. This is important to distingiush since when looking at memory use this will show up differently to the process heap memory use.

| `Factors`   | Size of the largest repository                                                                         |
|             | Number of monorepos                                                                                    |

> | `Guideline` | More memory requires for running queries that have results returned from the largest repository        |

Reviewer: We should have relatively low memory use. We stream out search results, so memory use will be based on number of concurrent requests rather than size of repositories. Most memory will be useful around page cache.

|             | Number of insight series defined               |
| `Guideline` | One goroutine per worker                       |

| Memory      |                                                                |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Overview`  | Abulating search results to generate Code Insights time series |
| `Factors`   | Number of repositories                                         |
|             | Number of insight series defined                               |
| `Guideline` | Grow with the number of repositories and code-insight users    |

| Storage     |      |
| :---------- | :--- |
| `Overview`  | -    |
| `Factors`   | -    |
| `Guideline` | -    |
| `Type`      | None |

---

### zoekt-indexserver

```
Indexes all enabled repositories on Sourcegraph.
It also keeps the indexes up to date.
Lives inside the indexed-search pod in a Kubernetes deployment.
```

| Replica     |                                           |
| :---------- | :---------------------------------------- |
| `Overview`  | Parallel with zoekt-webserver             |
| `Factors`   | Number of repositories                    |

> | `Guideline` | More repositories = more CPU and replicas |

Reviewer: the main guideline for scaling a zoekt-indexserver is the size of your largest repo not number of repos. Note: it currently only indexes one repository at a time. So you can actually be quite conservative with the memory and CPU. webserver is the one that requires lots of CPU and RAM to speed up searches.

So I think number of repos isn't important here. Rather the size of your largest repo / tolerance towards indexing delay. Additionally it is useful to give indexserver lots of resources when creating a new external service which adds lots of repos that need indexing, then scale down.

In general the amount of RAM used by indexserver will max out at 100MB * number of CPUS * constant factor. That constant factor is probably like 5 in practice.

| CPU         |                                                                                              |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Overview`  | Indexes one repository at a time                                                             |
| `Factors`   | Number of repositories                                                                       |
|             | Size of the largest repository                                                               |
| `Guideline` | More repositories = more CPU and replicas                                                    |
|             | More CPU results in lower lag between a new commit and the time it takes to index for search |

| Memory      |                                                               |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `Overview`  | Scans for symbols                                             |
| `Factors`   | Number of repositories                                        |
|             | Size of all repositories                                      |

> | `Guideline` | Scales with the number of repositories and code-insight users |

Reviewer: as mentioned above, it scales purely on largest repo and nothing to do with user / code-insight traffic.

| Storage     |                                   |
| :---------- | :-------------------------------- |
| `Overview`  | Stores search indexes             |
| `Factors`   | Size of all repositories          |
| `Guideline` | 50% of the gitserver disk size    |
| `Type`      | Persistent Volumes for Kubernetes |
|             | Persistent SSD for Docker Compose |

---

### zoekt-webserver

```
Runs searches from in-memory indexes.
The indexes are also persisted to disk to avoid re-indexing on startup.
Lives inside the indexed-search pod in a Kubernetes deployment.
```

| Replica     |                                                         |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------------------------ |
| `Overview`  | Parallel with zoekt-indexserver                         |
| `Factors`   | Number of repositories                                  |
|             | Size of all repositories                                |
| `Guideline` | Replicas number must be parallel with zoekt-indexserver |

| CPU         |                                         |
| :---------- | :-------------------------------------- |

> | `Overview`  | A thread is dispatched per search query |

Reviewer: num cpu goroutines are dispatched per search query.

| `Factors`   | Number of repositories                  |
|             | Number of active users                  |

> | `Guideline` | More users = more CPU and replicas      |

Reviewer: worth noting that often search traffic is bursty. So when monitoring CPU usage base it on peak bursts, rather than average over time. Often even in busy systems zoekt can more often be doing nothing waiting for a request. But it being fast is what results in a good user experience.

| Memory      |                                         |
| :---------- | :-------------------------------------- |
| `Overview`  | Parts of the index are stored in memory |
| `Factors`   | Number of repositories                  |
|             | Size of all repositories                |
| `Guideline` | More repositories = more memory         |

| Storage     |                                             |
| :---------- | :------------------------------------------ |

> | `Overview`  | Serves and processes data from index-server |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Overview`  | Serves and processes data from zoekt-indexserver |
```
